[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to another edition
of "Beyond Belief" with
our guest, Grant Cameron.
He's been researching
UFOs since 1975.
He has studied all of
the US presidents' roles,
the roles of consciousness, and
the relationship between UFOs
and other paranormal phenomena.
He has written six books, has
five more near completion.
You never stop, Grant.
>>GRANT CAMERON: I
try to stay busy.
>>NOORY: You're writing
five books at one time?
>>CAMERON: I just sort of let
things happen as they happen.
And for whatever
reason, this came out,
there were so many things
happening at the same time.
>>NOORY: That means five
more shows on our radio
show "Coast to Coast."
>>CAMERON: And some
interesting stuff that,
in terms of contact modalities,
in terms of things you talked
about on your show that I have--
one of the books
I have coming up
is "Contact Modalities" where
I say that, whether you're
reading crystal
balls or tea leaves,
or channeling, or doing remote
viewing, or UFO experiences,
it's all the same thing.
It's all this higher,
vibrating, frequency stuff.
And so I did a book on that.
And I was asked to do a
chapter in a book for somebody.
And I thought, well,
to get it started,
I'll just list the
contact modalities.
And I came by with 75
>>NOORY: Might as
well write the book.
>>CAMERON: Yeah,
that's when I said.
Well, just let's
put this out there.
And so to me, the
way I do it the books
is that I have the research,
and it's just to record it.
Because as with
many researchers,
my family's not really
that interested in it.
My son has no
interest in at all.
And so what you want to do
is try to record everything
that you've got so
that if you suddenly,
like Stanton Friedman, you're in
an airport, and you suddenly--
>>NOORY: --keel over.
>>CAMERON: --keel over,
you've got your stuff recorded
for history.
Because I always
consider this, the UFO
and the other paranormal
stuff, as the Super Bowl
of all stories.
And I try to encourage
everybody who has a story
to record it for your children.
Even if you don't
publish it, record it.
Because 500 years from now,
people are going to say,
man, those people were so
lucky they lived in that time
when this was happening, and
they knew what was going on.
If you understand
the significance
of what's going on, it is the
biggest story of all times.
And everybody, I think--
whatever your story
is, you should
be recording it for history.
>>NOORY: What would be more
fascinating than the uncover
the fact that we are not
alone in the universe?
It's an amazing story.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
People are so busy in their
daily lives that they--
they're taking their
kid to soccer practice,
and they're working,
and they're on freeways,
and stuff like that.
They just don't have
time to think about it.
So because I always
had an opportunity
to think about
this kind of stuff,
I consider it to
be extremely lucky.
I try to say thank you
three times every day that I
got to play in this role.
Because I always
make this analogy
that you could have been born
an untouchable in the streets
of Calcutta and spend your
days in a junkyard looking
for something valuable enough
to sell for food for tomorrow.
You didn't get that.
You got to play in this
game, in the Super Bowl.
And you're not in the stands.
You're actually on the field.
You may be the water boy,
you may be the quarterback,
but you have some role that
you're playing in this thing.
And you should
take it seriously.
And as the Bible says, to much
is given, much is expected.
So because we're
in this game, you
should take it
seriously and do all
you can to take the
opportunity you were given
and do something with it.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
What got you interested in
the field of ufology, Grant?
>>CAMERON: Well, and now we're
going to this contact modality
thing, I was interested
in Edgar Cayce very young.
I was inter-- when
I was at university,
I did a study on dying
people in hospitals.
So I had all these
bizarre questions about,
does anybody ever
have someone coming
to visit them before they die to
lead them over the other side?
Does anybody ever
predict their death?
Are there near-death
experiences?
This is in the '70s.
So this is when near-death
experiences first
started coming out.
And I went to the
hospitals, and I talked not
to the doctors and nurses;
I talked to the chaplains.
And the chaplains are
there when the people die.
And I would ask these
questions, does enable
everybody to
predict their death?
And they'd say, oh, yeah.
And they would tell you stories.
And I went, wow, all
these stories are true.
So I had done that study.
I had no interest in UFOs.
And basically, what happened is,
there was a small town called
Carman, Manitoba just north
of the American border that
was having-- these
objects were being--
they were claiming
they were seeing
these things every night.
And so I just said
to my friend, well,
let's go see what
they're looking at.
I had no interest in UFOs.
I had never thought about
extraterrestrial life
that I can think of.
And we went out, we
were there for an hour,
and nothing really happened.
And my friend said, we'll drive
back into the town one more
time.
If nothing happens,
let's go home.
I said, fantastic.
This has been a
total waste of time.
And as we--
>>NOORY: Get me home.
>>CAMERON: --drove back in, we
turned the car to go back in,
the thing appeared from
the left to the right.
It was down low.
It was in front of the car.
It was not a light in
the sky it was an object,
and it was pulsing, and
it was moving up and down.
>>NOORY: Clearly not a plane.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, moving
very, very slowly.
And my life just changed.
I went, it's real.
It was my first
paranormal experience.
So it's fine to
hear somebody who
has a paranormal experience.
When it happens to you,
it just sets you off.
>>NOORY: Did you have that
feeling inside of you, like,
oh, my god.
>>CAMERON: Oh, yeah,
I was just floored.
And then I went out
two nights later.
My friends, they weren't
all that interested.
But I said, come
on, let's go again.
The second night,
it came right at us.
And it was almost, like,
it was almost planned.
It came right at us.
And I was looking.
And then I remember, as
it turned and started
flying into the
Northeast, I looked at it,
and I was thinking,
what are they doing?
Because they were just
sort of flying along.
And it didn't make sense.
And I became obsessed.
And I published a book.
I went and interviewed
all people in the town,
and nobody wanted
anything to do with it.
And the one woman said, you may
believe in this kind of stuff.
Count me among the unbelievers,
one of the publishers.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>CAMERON: And I went, whoa.
I couldn't believe it.
>>NOORY: It was mumbo jumbo.
>>CAMERON: To me,
it was dramatic.
And it was at that
point that I said, well,
I don't really know what's going
on, but somebody in this world
has got to know
what's going on here.
And that's where I
started this pursuit
to find the highest level
of people I could find.
So I chased the president
of United States,
the Canadian government.
I chased the highest
intelligence people.
And I wouldn't really
interact with them,
but I'd listen very carefully to
what these people were saying.
And that's how I
got into documents.
So I said, I started--
>>NOORY: Because you're
known for the documents.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, yeah.
And I started the document thing
with the Canadian government.
Because most people don't know--
and that's one of the five
books I've got coming up.
And I've had this stuff on my
website and stuff for years.
And then I said I'd
better put it in a book.
My father worked for the
Department of Transport
in Canada.
And the official flying
saucer investigation
was done by the
Department of Transport.
So this synchronicity happens.
Somebody in my
father's office comes.
He's got a sighting.
He tells me about this
and he says, you know,
if you really want to know
what's going on with UFOs,
you should study with
the Canadian government
was studying in the 1950s.
And I said--
>>NOORY: Bingo.
>>CAMERON: And then, he
said-- the guy was-- he was
the most brilliant engineer.
His name was Wilbert Smith, most
brilliant engineer I ever met.
But this guy was totally crazy.
He was talking to aliens.
They were landing.
I'm going what, what, what?
And I was, like--
so I was still very young.
And I actually got
a plane ticket,
and I flew to Ottawa to
talk to Wilbur Smith's wife.
And at that point, she
started to confirm this.
Yeah, we opened a landing
base for UFOs to land.
And she was telling
me all this stuff.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>CAMERON: And the Prime
Minister was involved.
And I'm going, like,
wow, I was just floored.
So I went after his files.
Those are the first files I
got was Wilbur Smith's files.
And the late Stanton
Friedman was actually the guy
that forced them out in 1978.
So that's when it started.
>>NOORY: He was Canadian too.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
And he had forced-- they'd
forced these documents out.
The Canadians released
all the documents.
And when I saw the
documents, that's
when we discovered the famous
top-secret memo, which I think
is one of the most
significant documents ever.
And this is the one where
Wilbur Smith is negotiating
with the Americans
on FM frequencies
because he was the
head radio engineer
for the Canadian government.
He's negotiating.
And he's interested in UFOs.
And so he says to the Americans,
like, so what's going on?
And he's basically read in.
He's given stuff and material
starts coming to Canada.
And he writes this memo
in November of 1950
in which he says, I
made discreet inquiries
to the Canadian
embassy in Washington.
And what I was told was, number
one, flying saucers exist.
It's the most highly classified
subject in the United States.
It's of tremendous
significance to the Americans.
And there's a small
group headed by Dr.
Vannevar Bush trying to figure
out the modus operandi and were
also told by American
officials-- this is 1950--
were also told by
American officials
that other things
might be associated
with the flying saucers,
such as mental phenomena.
And the Americans
aren't doing very well
because they've said we're
working on this problem.
They're willing to exchange
credentials and talk
to us about this.
So I gathered all that material.
And then, in the early
1980s, Wilbur Smith,
when he was about
to die, he realized
his files were going
to-- they were going
to try to recover his files.
So he told his wife,
he said, they're
going to come and try to get
my files, his private files.
He said, when they
come, I don't care
who it is, you do not
give them the files.
She said, the Americans
came, the Russians came,
and the Canadians came.
And they all asked for the
files for research purposes.
She said she had
destroyed the files.
Actually, they had moved them
to the oldest son's house--
>>NOORY: --and hid them
>>CAMERON: --and hid them.
And in the 1980s, then
those files came out.
And then we discovered
documents like what
we call the embassy documents.
And this is the
actual correspondence
through the Canadian
Embassy in Washington
where Wilbur is talking
to the second secretary
of the Canadian embassy.
And the Canadian embassy is
waiting for the Americans
to make a statement because they
realize there's been a crash.
They realize
something's happened.
And they're waiting for the
Americans to make a statement.
And the Smith files were
called Project Magnet.
That was the official project.
>>NOORY: Magnet?
>>CAMERON: Magnet.
And one of the
documents actually
said, please do not
destroy these files
until the subject cools off.
So you actually
had this document
where they were going
to destroy the files,
and I guess it slipped
through the cracks.
So this top secret
memo leaked out.
And so I went from
there to trying
to find out who in
the United States
had given Wilbur Smith these
documents or briefed him.
We're trying to figure
who the American sideways.
And that's when I came across
this former president of Penn
State University, 14
honorary doctorate degrees,
friends of President Eisenhower,
the co-developer of the homing
torpedo--
very high level guy
who basically confirms,
yeah, MJ-12 is for real.
You're up against the windmills.
Leave it alone.
I start going after his files.
And I went to Penn
State University.
I spent a couple of
weeks there looking
through hundreds of
thousands of pages of files.
>>NOORY: They gave you access?
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
And I'm looking for it because
we knew he had a file on us.
He was dealing with various
researchers sending them
little quips and
stuff like that.
We were looking for this file.
I never did find a file.
But he said that his
files from 195o-- and this
is when Wilbur Smith was
dealing with the Canadians, who
had gone the Truman Library.
And that's when I went
to the Truman Library,
and I said to them, what
have you got on UFOs?
And that's when they said,
well, we don't have that much.
We have all the--
in 1952, there was the
overflight of Washington, DC.
And they were going to--
>>NOORY: It goes
all over the place,
>>CAMERON: And the first week,
there was this shootdown order.
And it was across all the
newspapers the United States.
And so all these
telegrams started
coming into the White
House to say, please
don't shoot them down.
And there was even a story
told by Frank Edwards
who was the big
broadcaster in the 1950s.
And he had stated that
Einstein had actually
gone to the president during
that one week, the shootdown
order, and said Mr.
President, anybody
who can come across
millions of miles of space
will know how to take care of
themselves once they get here.
Please don't start
something you--
>>NOORY: He was right,
>>CAMERON: --you can't finish.
>>NOORY: He was right.
>>CAMERON: And so
when I got there,
they gave me all
these telegrams.
And now I'm thinking,
this is kind of strange.
You figure, this is the most
important subject in the world.
The president's got to
know what's going on.
And there was really
nothing there.
And then just down the road,
maybe a couple hours down
the road in Kansas, was
the Abilene, Kansas--
Kansas was where the
Eisenhower files were.
So I went to the
Eisenhower Library.
And it was there where
it's very formal.
All have all the archives
have ties and stuff.
And I went there, and you
have to do an interview
to do research.
So I said, well, I'm
looking for UFO stuff.
And they pulled five documents.
One was the famous Robertson
Panel CIA report was in there.
And--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>CAMERON: --four other
telegrams, just minor stuff.
And I said, well, how many
pages have you got here?
And he said 28 million, I think.
And you've got five documents--
>>NOORY: 28 million total pages?
>>CAMERON: Pages
in the archives.
And that's when I
suddenly decided,
I'm going to go to all
the presidential libraries
because the president's
got to know.
So I made this pursuit.
So then I went, I got
the Roosevelt files,
everything that was in the
Roosevelt Library, everything
that was in the
Truman Library the--
>>NOORY: Well, you went wild.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, I
went to everybody.
I got them all.
And then I hit paydirt
with the Clintons.
And so I was filing
with the Clintons
before they left office.
There is one agency that
has to answer FOIAs.
That's the science
advisor to the president.
>>NOORY: Well, if there's an
obvious cover up going on,
Grant-- let's take a look, yeah.
>>RICHARD DOLAN: When we start
getting into the upper, highest
level echelon of the cover
up of the UFO phenomenon,
I still feel that I
need to be careful,
and researchers
need to be careful.
Who is the actual
person at the top of it?
Is it David Rockefeller?
Is it some member of
the Rothschild family?
Is it some member that
we don't know about
within the deep black
budget community?
Or is it the aliens themselves
in one form or another?
I guess we can ask
ourselves, what
is the likelihood that the
non-human intelligences that
are behind the UFO phenomenon
are managing the cover up
to some extent?
I think we could
say a few things.
One, we can say they do not have
an interest in being out there
and being publicly acknowledged.
They do operate by stealth.
I think they've always
operated by stealth.
So they have an interest in
maintaining a cover-up secrecy.
Toward that end,
if I were tasked
with doing counterintelligence
on the cover up,
I would have to
consider the likelihood
that they, themselves, have some
role to play in the secrecy.
>>NOORY: That was Richard
Dolan on the Gaia series "Deep
Space."
Something's going on.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
I believe that both the
government and the intelligence
are playing the same game.
I say there's not
a direct cover up.
Because if there is
a direct cover up,
they do what the Canadians do.
Because I'm a Canadian,
I get asked all the time,
so what's the Canadian
government doing?
And I'm going, I haven't
got the foggiest notion what
the Canadian government does.
I have no idea because the
Canadians don't talk about it.
So if you're going to cover it
up, you stop talking about it.
You don't leak documents.
You don't have people talking
about this kind of stuff.
You just be quiet.
And if you want to
disclose, then you
stand the president or
the CIA director up,
and you tell people
what's going on.
So they're not covering up,
and they're not disclosing.
The same thing with
the intelligence.
If the intelligence-- if
they say it in the abduction
scenario, if they want to cloak
themselves, nobody sees them.
So they're not covering up.
They could not be seen.
But they're allowing
themselves to be seen,
but they're doing the same
thing, not covering up and not
disclosing.
But they are giving
little hints.
People are getting
ideas in their heads,
these experiencers, they're
given messages and stuff.
So I think both sides
are doing the same thing.
They're doing this gradual
disclosure, which goes back
to this study that was done
in 1960 that said, if we are
facing this phenomena, we
have to gradually release it
to the people.
You can't just drop it
on the people in one day.
So I think both are doing
the same sort of thing
where it's almost like
the breadcrumb thing
where they're leading us
slowly through this process
of acclimatized.
>>NOORY: On purpose,
or by necessity?
>>CAMERON: Well, I think,
in everything in government,
they will have all
sorts of scenarios.
And to give you the
idea, a couple of years
back, Paul Hellyer
told the story.
He was asked--
>>NOORY: Canadian
defense minister.
>>CAMERON: --defense
minister who--
my father actually
flew him around
because he was in
the same department.
>>NOORY: Was he under Trudeau?
>>CAMERON: Yes, he
was under Trudeau.
He was asked, well, who
in the Canadian government
is in charge?
And he said, well,
maybe the privy council.
And he started guessing.
He doesn't really know
because he really didn't know.
He told me, clearly,
he didn't know
when he was defense minister.
He wasn't interested.
>>NOORY: He should have known.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, but he didn't--
stuff that's come across his
desk, he didn't pay attention.
And then, when the second
round of questions comes,
he says, you know, I know
somebody who does know.
He says, I was contacted
by an Air Force guy,
and he said there's a guy here.
He ran the emergency
measures for Canada.
So if there is a nuclear
attack, or if there's a war,
or whatever, you have
the emergency-- like,
here, it's FEMA.
So you have this agency that
has to put money in banks,
and they have to do
all these-- and they
will have all these scenarios.
What do we do if this happens?
And not that anything
is going to happen.
So he was told that
this guy was dying,
and he had something that
he had to get off his chest.
And he had decided Paul Hellyer
was the guy he wanted to tell.
He was dying of ALS.
And so Paul didn't do anything.
And the guy phoned
him back, and he said,
you know, he's about
to go off the cliff,
you better talk to him.
So Paul said he phones up
this guy, head of Emergency
Management from Canada.
And the guy says, I just want to
let you know it's all for real.
I was brought to the CIA.
I signed my life away.
I was given a briefing.
I was told this is for real.
And I was actually at
Area 51, and I actually
sat inside one of the crafts.
>>NOORY: Sheesh.
>>CAMERON: And I just
want you to know this.
And that would make sense that--
see, I see--
>>NOORY: That's amazing, Grant.
>>CAMERON: --as doing their
job that people in government--
because I was in
government myself--
that, you just do your job.
You don't know what the
next guy's doing, but you--
>>NOORY: They're,
like, segments, right?
>>CAMERON: And they
have their thing.
So in these scenarios of
Emergency Management or FEMA
or whatever, there
are going to be
all sorts of people making
policies and trying to figure
out this sort of stuff.
I don't think it's haphazard.
I think they spend a
lot of money on this.
And that goes back
to the documents
from the 1980s, which have now
been confirmed in this latest
leak was that MJ-12 is for real.
That, there is a
group called MJ-12
and a group that was put
in charge of this thing
to control the thing.
And that would make
sense in a government
where everybody's
doing their job,
everybody's trying to
do it constitutionally,
solve the problems.
You would organize this stuff.
I don't really believe so
much in rogue government.
I believe a lot of
it is constitutional.
It's just that people
don't know because you're
so limited in what you know.
And that was my experience
in government working
at a university is that I had
the keys to the president's
office, eight vice president's
office, human resources.
I had keys to everything.
I didn't know was going on.
I only knew my little job.
>>NOORY: Of all
the documents you
have uncovered, based on
ufology, what are some
of the most significant ones?
>>CAMERON: OK.
The top secret memo
would be the top one,
the Canadian one that basically
says flying saucers are real.
And that was a top secret--
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>CAMERON: --document that the
Canadian government does not
deny.
It's in the archives.
There was that one.
There were a couple
of surprises when
I was at the Reagan Library.
I was I was looking to
see, why did Reagan put
all this stuff in his speeches?
Because I knew m, like
everything else in government,
everything is done to the max.
Like, a State of
the Union address
will have 30 different drafts.
It'll have 25
different agencies that
have to sign off on every
little every word that is said.
>>NOORY: Everything he says.
>>CAMERON: And so I
was trying figure out,
why did Reagan put all this
UFO stuff in his speeches?
He was always talking about it.
And so I was looking.
And it's five minutes
before the archives closed.
I said to her, is this
Ronald Reagan's handwriting?
She says no.
She flipped, flipped, flips,
flips through these pages,
and she points.
She says that's
his writing there.
>>NOORY: That's him--
>>CAMERON: And it
was Ronald Reagan.
What had happened, when he made
the famous speech at the United
Nations talking about
the alien invasion.
>>NOORY: What would
happen if the world--
>>CAMERON: We'd unite.
It was him talking about
it in his handwriting.
And what had happened is,
he put it in the speech,
and they pulled it out.
The speechwriter pulled it out.
And he said, oh.
>>NOORY: He put it in.
>>CAMERON: Oh, about my fantasy.
Could you please put it how we
would be united if creatures
from another planet.
Could you please put
it back in the speech?
I was just floored.
Here it was, this document.
And then, I guess the
Rockefeller initiative
documents--
Bruce Maccabee it
filed for them.
And I heard you got 500 pages.
And I went, oh, so I filed.
>>NOORY: 500 pages?
>>CAMERON: I got 1,000.
And I got 1,000.
When I filed, I got 1,000.
>>NOORY: All UFOs?
>>CAMERON: All UFOs.
And this was this exchange
that Rockefeller had said,
whether Perot wins
or whether Bush wins
or whether Clinton wins,
I'm going in there,
and I'm going to get the
president to disclose.
And I remember Bud Hopkins
telling me, he said to him,
you know, Lawrence, I don't
think that's how it works.
I'm going to do it, he said.
I'm doing it.
I'm going in there.
And the president's
going to disclose.
And so he went in, and because
he was a very powerful guy,
the White House had
to deal with him.
So they didn't allow him
to get to the president,
because there's always
this plausible deniability.
The president doesn't know.
>>NOORY: And some of them don't.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, well, they
may not because they're not
interested in it.
>>NOORY: I would say Nixon knew,
Reagan knew, Clinton probably
knew.
I'm not sure Carter knew.
What do you think?
Or Gerald Ford?
>>CAMERON: Well, we looked at
the Holloman Air Force Base
film, and we determined
that three of them
had actually seen this
film of this landing
at Holloman Air Force Base.
And that was Ford, Bush
Sr. and there's a rumor
that Jimmy Carter had been
shown this film as well.
I still think it's
constitutional
that people are going to-- if
the president wants to know,
there's nothing they
can do to stop him.
If the president wants
documents, and he's interested,
he can he can get the documents.
But what happened with
Rockefeller is he went in.
So they kept him away
from the president.
This is very interesting because
it involves Hillary Clinton.
So he went in there,
and he was dealing
with the science advisor.
And the science advisor actually
asked for a UFO briefing.
And it goes to the CIA to a
guy by the name of Dr. Ronald
Pandolfi.
And Pandolfi, the
CIA is not involved.
So he gives it to Bruce
Maccabee to do the briefing.
Now, it's no longer a briefing.
It's just a citizen's
opinion of what's going on.
And so this 1,000
pages is Rockefeller,
back and forth with Rockefeller
and the science advisor.
And they're trying to--
and every time they
would try to stonewall
him, he'd say,
OK, I think it's time to send
a letter to the president.
And so in this 1,000
pages of documents,
you have this letter that
he's always threatening
to send to the president.
And one of the two most
significant documents
in the Rockefeller initiative
were two Hillary Clinton
documents that nobody noticed.
And one was that
he would give it
to, say, the science advisor.
He would say, I'm
sending this letter
to the president
demanding UFO disclosure.
And people would help him edit--
Hillary Clinton was
one of the people who
helped him edit the letter--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: And this was when
she was the First Lady?
>>CAMERON: For the first lady.
And that was the one document.
The other document that was very
significant in this exchange
was that all the material going
from Rockefeller to the science
advisor, from their science
goes back to Rockefeller,
was going to the
First Lady's office.
And I couldn't figure
out, like, why would it be
going through Hillary's office?
And then it suddenly
occurred to me.
It was this plausible
deniability to the president.
So the president doesn't
know, Bill Clinton,
I don't know what's
going on whatever.
So that stuff goes,
it goes to Hillary,
and at night, Hillary
goes to Bill and says,
OK, this is what's happening.
Rockefeller says this.
And it goes, and you have
this plausible deniability.
It's coming through Hillary.
So that's why all the material
is going through Hillary
Clinton's office.
She was deeply involved
in this initiative.
>>NOORY: Here's a CNN interview
grant with Edgar Mitchell.
>> You know, we talk so much
about the Roswell findings,
what's there, what wasn't there,
the secrecy surrounding that.
But from your studies
of astrophysics,
from being an astronaut,
from going to the moon,
from studying the
pictures of the galaxy,
tell me something
that you've seen
or that you've studied that
you just feel in your gut,
there is something
else out there.
>>EDGAR MITCHELL: Well,
you were saying it right.
It's an intuitive feeling.
Looking at the heavens and the
modern pictures of the Hubble
telescope, from the
Hubble telescope,
and seeing the
complexities and the beauty
and recognizing the universe
is much more complex
and magnificent than
our earlier pictures,
our earlier understanding
would have ever let us imagine.
And so you're right, that's
the intuitive aspect of it.
But the real question here
that we've been addressing
is have we been visited?
Are we, since we are now a
spacefaring civilization,
having only gone
to our own moon,
but have our visitors, the
aliens, have they come to us?
And all the evidence says yes.
>> So what is it that you want
to see the Obama administration
release?
What is it specifically?
What do you think is
there that we need to see?
>>MITCHELL: Well, was
the other nations--
and this has been a
global phenomenon.
Other nations and,
just in recent history,
the Belgian nation, the French,
the Brazilians, the Holloman
the Argentines, all of their
files have been opened up.
And there's no
reason in the world
why the US files,
the leading nation
in the world in
this period, should
have been reticent
to opening theirs too
except special interest groups.
>> So let me ask you, for all
the stories that have leaked
over all the years--
and there's always
somebody somewhere
that's going to leak something.
And if there was
really something there,
don't you think,
by now, somebody
would have said something?
>>MITCHELL: Oh, it has.
People been saying it all along.
But for example, just the
explanation for the Roswell
incident has changed
every few years,
and a new story comes out.
If it were really that
simple, if it weren't what
it really was, it wouldn't need
all of these various stories
coming out.
And so the attempt to cover this
up and to disguise the issue
and create misinformation
and disinformation
is very well recorded.
And the documentation from
very fine researchers,
like Dr. Robert Wood
and his son Ryan
who've investigated all
of the early documents,
all point to the same story.
Hey, we're not alone here.
We've been visited.
>>NOORY: I think one of the
most dramatic cases, the fact
that an astronaut would
go public like this.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
And I became involved just
in the last eight months
in the Edgar Mitchell
story in that--
>>NOORY: How so?
>>CAMERON: This is
the idea when I first
started was that there
are people who have better
access to the
information than you
or I. They were in intelligence.
They worked on UFOs
for a little bit.
They know a little
bit of the story,
and they're all trying
to figure it out as well.
And Edgar Mitchell was
one of those people.
The story was that
there was a rumor
that Bush Sr. had told
him what was going on,
that he had gotten
some information,
and that he was one
of the guys who knew
Roswell was real and stuff.
And it was always, like,
who are his sources?
And so in Loughlin,
Nevada, I'm about to leave.
And a guy from
Australia comes up,
James Rigney comes up to me, and
he says, I need to talk to you.
I want to show you a document.
And I said, well, I'm
actually going to Tucson.
I'm leaving right now.
I've got to be there by
suppertime, at dinnertime.
And he said, I need 10
minutes of your time.
So I said, all
right, 10 minutes.
>>NOORY: All right, 10
minutes, you got it.
>>CAMERON: Pulls out his iPad,
and he shows me this document.
And it's now called
the Wilson document.
I looked at it, and I
saw two names on document
that nobody else would know,
high-level people that I knew
were involved.
And I said to him, I said,
where'd you get this from?
It was the most dramatic
document I've ever seen,
and I've seen a
lot of documents.
I said, where'd
you get this from?
And he said, it comes from
Edgar Mitchell's files.
And it suddenly made sense.
Edgar Mitchell was a story
that researchers will--
somebody would
tell him something.
They'll put in their file;
they don't talk about it.
And then, when they die, someone
like me races to their files
to see, what did they--
>>NOORY: Who gives you
access to their files?
>>CAMERON: Well, their
files will usually be put
in an archives
like Edgar Mitch--
>>NOORY: Public?
>>CAMERON: Edgar
Mitchell's was different.
What happened was
the family wasn't
interested in this stuff.
And there was an
aerospace guy who
was friends with the family who
said, well, don't throw it out.
I'll take it.
And he took some books and
some files and stuff like that.
And then James Rigney
was friends of his.
He's an aerospace guy as well.
And then he saw these documents.
And he said, can I
photocopy these documents?
And so he photocopied a
bunch of these documents.
So when I saw this document,
and when he said Edgar Mitchell,
suddenly, it made sense.
Edgar Mitchell had passed away.
And he told me the story of
how this document had surfaced
and how he'd gotten it.
And I said, what are
you going to do with it?
And he said, I don't
know what to do with it.
That's why I'm
showing it to you.
And I said, OK, give it to me,
I'll-- and I was going to do
a book called "Beyond
Managing Magic."
I said I'll just
put it in the book.
At the end of the book, I
won't say anything about us.
Put it in the book, and
let's see what happens.
And that's why I say there's
controlled disclosure.
And to me, it's like
nonfiction disclosure.
He's put the document out
and let people figure it out
for themselves.
So I'd seen about two
pages of the document.
Then it was about a month later
he sends me, and it's 15 pages.
And then I started to panic.
I go, like, what
am I going to do?
Because I knew all the
people in the document.
I had dealt with these people.
And I'm thinking, I don't
know if I can leak this thing.
So then I--
>>NOORY: And you felt
it was authentic?
>>CAMERON: Oh,
absolutely because I knew
it was coming from.
And he told me
there were others.
There's the Wilson document.
Then there's this alien
autopsy document people
are talking about it.
He sent me that when later.
So I had those two documents.
Then he sent me
a personal letter
that Edgar had sent to somebody
just a travelers coming
from Edgar's files.
He said you can't release that.
The other one he
gave me was a letter
from Bob Bigelow to
Edgar Mitchell talking
about the NIDS.
Because what happened was Edgar
Mitchell sat on his NIDS board.
And the NIDS board is
the National Institute
for Discovery of Science--
>>NOORY: Funded by
Bigelow at the time.
>>CAMERON: And what he
did is what I'm doing.
What he would do is he would
take the highest level people
and say, these people
know what's going on.
And he would bring them
in on a per diem thing,
and they would sit there and try
to discuss various cases like,
is Roswell real, is
Skinwalker Ranch.
And they would have a
discussion on the weekend,
and these guys go back
to their regular jobs.
So Edgar Mitchell
was on that board.
And these were NIDS documents.
These were conclusions
to various studies.
So they'd done one on the
Holloman Air Force Base thing.
They'd done alien autopsy.
They'd done this
thing with Wilson.
They'd investigated things.
So these were just
documents that had come.
And what some
people don't know is
that there are other documents.
I know there are other
documents in the file that James
has that-- the other
guy may have even more.
There was a rumor there were six
boxes of files that came back
from Edgar Mitchell.
And so I said to
James, it's up to you.
I know some of the
documents he has.
And whether he puts these other
documents from Edgar Mitchell
out--
but basically comes--
that Edgar Mitchell
was sitting on this board where
these high-level guys were
discussing this kind of stuff.
And the material
ended up with me,
and then I didn't
know to do with it.
So I just decided,
well, I can't leak it,
but I'm not going
to cover it up.
Because that's the whole deal.
I mean, if I'm
covering it up, I'm
just as bad as everybody else.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>CAMERON: So anyway, I'd tell
people about the document,
and they'd say, can
I see that document?
And I showed it to
a bunch of people,
and somebody put
on the internet.
And that's how--
>>NOORY: That's how it started.
>>CAMERON: And so I've gotten
a lot of those documents
where stuff has come out.
In fact, the one guy whose name
was on there was Oak Shannon.
And Oak Shannon is
an aerospace guy.
And he's the guy who set up
the meeting between Dr. Eric
Davis and this Admiral Wilson.
>>NOORY: And these are
all real-deal people.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, oh, yeah, I've
known a lot of these people.
That was the problem I
had with the documents.
And so Oak Shannon, I've been
given Oak Shannon's notes
from what was called the UFO
working group from the 1980s.
I had never released it.
I've still not released it.
It's in this
upcoming book that I
have called the "Alien
Documents," where
I go through all the documents,
leaked documents, FOIA
documents, and I
basically spell them out.
And this is one from the 1980s.
And it's basically almost the
same as the Wilson document
that you have these 20
high-level people who
are brought into a
skiff on the East Coast.
And they're trying to
figure out what's going on.
So you have these various
subjects-- cow mutilations,
alien abductions, Roswell--
>>NOORY: All these topics.
>>CAMERON: And
they're discussing.
And these guys, to
get into the meeting,
you have to have top
secret SEI clearance.
So it's these 20
guys, and basically it
comes down to the same thing.
UFOs are real, And
other than that,
we don't know what's going on.
>>NOORY: And they
don't conclude that?
>>CAMERON: And they
have this discussion.
There's just two-page discussion
where the one guy says,
are we to believe
that this stuff's all
going into some
sort of black hole,
and we don't know
what's going on?
And then some other person says,
yeah, that would be the idea.
And in this discussion where
these guys are basically
saying, yeah, it's
real, but we really
don't know what's going on.
So there were those kind of
documents that I decided,
I need to put these
documents out.
And there's so many
of these documents
have been given to me
because I'm a document guy.
There's the one-- the famous
story that, as I said,
they've always
been leaking stuff.
So in the 1970s,
Bob Emenegger, who
is a producer for Gray
Advertising and Allan Sandler
do a documentary called "UFOs--
Past, Present and Future."
And the government set them up.
They signed a contract
in the Pentagon
to do this documentary on UFOs.
They had access to
anybody they want.
They were approached
by Arthur Lundahl,
who was identified as one of
the top seven spies in the CIA.
He ran the weird desk
at the CIA in charge
of UFOs and paranormal
phenomenon and stuff,
fascinated with UFOs.
>>NOORY: Is he still alive?
>>CAMERON: No, he's
died many years ago.
So he approached
them with a story
that, in 1959, the CIA
channeled an alien.
And the alien that
they channelled
was the same alien that the
Canadians were channeling.
And this was an alien
by name of Atha.
And so they put
this into this show.
And they had Robert Friend who's
just died just a little while
ago.
>>NOORY: They're
all dying, Grant.
>>CAMERON: Yeah, and so Friend
ran the Project Blue Book.
Lundahl was supposed
to go on camera
and tell the story about
channeling an alien,
but he said, I can't do it.
And Bob says, well, why
can't you go on camera?
He said, I'm on duty.
So they'd got Robert
Friend to tell a story.
And what happens is a
Navy intelligence guy
is taught to channel an alien
by a woman in Eliot, Maine.
She says I'll teach
you how to do-- she
puts her hand on his shoulder.
And suddenly, this guy's
doing this automatic writing.
>>NOORY: This is real.
>>CAMERON: This is real.
He goes to the CIA.
And Arthur Lundahl, who ran
the National Photographic
Interpretation Center where
they analyzed the U2, the SR-71
photographs and stuff,
he's interested.
He said, OK, sit down.
Let's talk to the alien.
So this guy sits down,
and they do this thing.
And they're asking him, do
you prefer a religion, and all
these different questions.
And then Arthur Lundahl says,
we'd like to have some proof.
And this is Robert Friend
telling this story on camera.
And he said, we'd
like some proof.
What would you like?
We need to see you.
When? .
Now.
Go to the window.
And they go to the window.
And Robert Friend describes
this flying saucer in the middle
of day flies over the capitol.
>>NOORY: It's right there.
>>CAMERON: And the thing
is, there's a CIA memo that
is produced by Arthur Lundahl.
Robert Friend recopies
it, handwritten,
and then [INAUDIBLE] says,
OK, now you've got the story.
Here's the document.
So this is one of the documents
in an 11-page document
of this channeling of an alien
in July of 1959 at the CIA.
And Arthur Lundahl--
nobody really
denies this story took place.
And this document, a lot
of people haven't seen.
So these are the documents that
have been given over the years
that I'm going to
sort of document it
where you can see that
it's not a cover up,
and it's not a disclosure.
It's this sort of leaking things
where you rewrite documents.
Because that's
plausible deniability.
You can't really prove
it's the document.
But it has all the CIA
people's names on it.
They were in the room when this
happened-- fascinating stuff.
>>NOORY: These documents are
constantly being discovered.
Do you think there's going to
be some new ones out there?
>>CAMERON: I'm releasing a
number of these documents.
Nobody's seen a lot
of these documents.
>>NOORY: Are they revealing?
>>CAMERON: I've moved a little
bit on what I think really
is known.
There's a statement that's
made by Kit Green who
this prominent CIA guy who
says Uncle is clueless.
And the more I look at it, the
more I come to the conclusion
that that may be true,
that UFOs are real.
But in terms of understanding
the significance,
they really don't
know what's going on.
If you look at Skinwalker
Ranch as an example,
when their Skin Walker
Ranch, this thing's
walking around them like
they're like a pylon.
They have no control
over the phenomenon.
And that's the
documents that I've
seen leaked that I'm going to
release basically shows, like,
this '85 meeting where these
20 high-level, top-secret guys
are saying, we don't really
know what's going on.
>>NOORY: Is this
full disclosure?
>>CAMERON: Well, it's
as much as you can do.
I mean, in terms
of them releasing,
that may be why they don't do
full disclosure is because they
have to say, we have no idea.
This thing can do
whatever it wants.
It can shut down our
nuclear missiles.
And they may not want to
release that kind of stuff.
And so if I'm briefing the
president, I go and say,
OK, we've got this much
material, Mr. President.
If you give us five
more years, the world
isn't coming to an end.
We can drill another oil
well, whatever we have to do.
The longer we delay
this thing, the more
answers we'll have
in case it happens
to be an evil phenomena, and
we can fight back against it.
So they're kicking
the can down the road
because they really are
trying to figure it out.
They haven't got the
answers that a lot of people
think they have.
>>NOORY: Gaia's "Deep Space"
talks about disclosure.
>> But some researchers believe
that the government and elite
have been disclosing
information for years.
>>MIKE BARA: I don't believe
in government disclosure.
When I think of official
government disclosure,
I think of the president
sitting in the Oval
Office with the paned windows
and the pictures of his family
over his shoulder telling us
that aliens have been here
for a long time, maybe
millions of years,
and they've manipulated
our genetics,
and we've been lying to you
about it for at least 70 years.
I'm skeptical that
that's actually
going to happen because I don't
see any political advantage
in the people who are
in power for telling us
that information.
All it will do is destabilize.
Whenever you introduce
a destabilizing element
into the body politic, the
only thing that can happen
is the guys at the
top can go down.
Having said that,
there appears to be
a pattern of
unofficial disclosure
that's going on
through our movies,
though our television
shows where they're getting
the information out
letting it leak bit
by bit, a document here, a
document there, a citing here,
a citing there.
>>NOORY: And that,
of course, was author
and researcher Mike Bara
talking about the possibility
of disclosure too.
What do you think?
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
I wrote my first book in 1990.
And that's been my
theory the whole time.
It's not full disclosure;
it's this gradual disclosure.
And one of the things--
>>NOORY: It was stages.
>>CAMERON: Yeah.
And so what would you see
in this recent document,
this Wilson leaked
document where
it says MJ-12 is for real.
Well, I said that 1989.
The MJ-12 document was altered.
It was not a real document.
And so what you see
is a confirmation
that, in the 1980s, they
were leaking the MJ-12 story.
And they just covered it
with a phony document.
So what happens is,
they put it out,
they changed the documents.
Somebody realized the document
is not a real document.
Then they yell hoax, and
everybody runs for the door.
>>NOORY: And they panic.
>>CAMERON: The story gets
out, and nobody confirms it.
So they're doing this
non-confirmable stuff
all the way through.
And that's the prime example
is that MJ-12 is real.
There is a control group
and that, in the 1980s,
the government was
leaking this story.
And now it was confirmed
in this Wilson leak, which
I believe is a
firm document that
came from Edgar Mitchell's files
that said, yeah MJ-12 is real.
Roswell is real.
So they'll leak
stories about Roswell,
but you can't confirm it, and
that's what they're doing.
>>NOORY: Are other governments
doing the same thing, Grant?
>>CAMERON: I have a difference
of opinion with most people.
Most people say, well,
the British released;
the Canadians released.
And I don't believe any of that.
I say, yeah, they're releasing.
But what they're doing is
they're releasing the same
as Blue Book.
The Canadians released
actually in '67,
two years before the Americans,
but what they're releasing
is what I call
the garbage files.
It's letters to the president
of United States, sighting
reports.
Where's the actual top-secret
stuff, the secretary defense
having a meeting
with the president?
Where's the briefing notes?
The British is a prime example.
So the British say we're going
to release all our UFO files.
There's nothing to this.
It's not a threat to
national security.
It's a waste of
government funds.
We're going to release
all our documents.
And then you move it from the
white world to the black world.
Because what you have, if you're
going to do this publicly,
and Blue Book had this thing.
It was a PR nightmare that
every time there was a sighting,
you had to bring out
a spokesman to explain
that it was a weather
balloon or something,
and people were
laughing and stuff.
>>NOORY: Always a skeptic.
>>CAMERON: And they
didn't want that.
So it's better to move
it into the black world,
say it doesn't exist, and then
you can study it all you want,
and you've got to
talk to the people.
>>NOORY: Have you
seen documents, Grant,
that are blacked out?
>>CAMERON: Yeah, I've seen it.
Well, there's a lot.
And in fact, I went
after Stanton Friedman
who just passed away.
Immediately, I filed
for his FBI file.
Because Stanton and Bill Moore
who was, in the 1980s, the guy
that moved the MJ-12 story,
both had filed for FBI file
in 1988 after the
MJ-12 story broke.
And both their files,
Moore's I know for sure
had over 50 pages
in the document
that were withheld in total--
national security, secret.
So the thing was everything
was just a researcher who's
scamming documents, whatever.
No, not if you've got
50 pages of documents
that are withheld
national security.
And Stanton's was
the same thing.
So when I was at Big Bear Lake a
couple months ago with Stanton,
I said Stanton, did you have
all your stuff blacked out
like Bill Moore?
And he said, yeah.
And I said, well, how
many pages was it?
And he said, I don't
really remember.
And that's one of the documents,
when I go to his files
that I'm looking for.
Stanton actually changed the
whole spectrum of this thing
because they used
to black them out.
And remember Stanton used
to stand there with the--
>>NOORY: Hold them up.
>>CAMERON: --documents
and embarrass these guys.
>>NOORY: And say, this is
going in my gray basket.
>>CAMERON: There you go.
But now they do white out.
They don't use
black stuff anymore.
So when I got Stanton's
FBI file just a month ago,
it's all whited out.
And that was because of
Stanton because it looks so bad
when it's all black.
>>NOORY: Yeah, the
blackout makes it look bad.
>>CAMERON: But half of
Stanton's FBI file is missing.
And Richard Doty, for
whatever he's worth,
told me that Stanton
was given some
very highly classified
documents in the 1980s,
and the FBI didn't know
what to do with it.
They didn't know
whether to arrest him
or what they were going
to do with Stanton.
And so this whole section
of Stanton's FBI file
has been whited out.
And I think Stanton
would be happy.
In fact the one has Stanton
Friedman's name on the top,
and the entire page
is totally whited out.
>>NOORY: Do you think he'd
be glad, then, that you're
going to get his file?
>>CAMERON: Oh, yeah, yeah.
And Stanton was an open guy.
He wanted it out,
whatever the answer was.
He always like-- he was one
of the guys that inspired me.
He went to 20 archives.
I've been to 35 archives now.
And the idea is that most
people will not really
research that kind
of stuff and that I
respect people who
have done research
that they got some answers.
And so when their
files become public,
I go there realizing
that they all
have pieces that nobody
else has seen before.
>>NOORY: What would
you hope to accomplish
with all this, Grant?
What's your goal?
>>CAMERON: Well, my
goal is always the same.
It's to get the material out so
that 500 years from now people
realize what actually happened.
It's the old thing, To whom
much is given, much is expected.
I've been given
this opportunity.
I'm able to do
this kind of stuff.
And to me, it's
like a chess game.
And I talked to Richard
Dolan about this.
To Richard and I, it's
like a chess game.
It's, like, you don't
get emotionally involved.
You sit there, and you
watch the government.
The government's on the
other side playing the game.
And you sit there,
and you watch.
And I used to be very good at
play chess when I was a kid.
>>NOORY: Let them make
their move, right?
>>CAMERON: You make the
move, and then you sit there,
and you do not make a
move until you figure out,
why did they move that piece?
What exactly are they doing?
You're trying to figure
out, what is he doing,
and then you make your move.
So to me, it's a chess game.
It's like a game, and
I'm intending to win.
I may not win, but I'm going
to carefully play it, not
get emotionally involved
in it, and do what
I call non-fiction disclosure.
If I get a document, I'm
just going to put it on.
I'm not going to sanitize it.
I'm not going to
give you my opinion.
Here's the document.
You figure it out for yourself
that people need material.
And if I believe it's
a legitimate document,
I'm going to put it out.
>>NOORY: What would you
like your epitaph to read?
>>CAMERON: Well, that I did the
best I could with what I've got
and then I tried to be an
independent researcher.
I don't really join groups.
I don't get behind anybody's
proposal or whatever.
I just, as an
independent researcher,
want to be known
for somebody who
did the best he could to
try to unravel the mystery
and get the highest level
people, the people who actually
know, and publish what they're
saying about this phenomena.
Because there are people
who know more than you.
And I think you have to
listen to those people.
>>NOORY: What does the future
hold for Grant Cameron?
>>CAMERON: Well, I have the
five books that are coming out.
And my main thing is
the consciousness thing.
I hate this disclosure thing
because it's like a rathole.
It's like people fighting
and stuff like this the time,
very controversial.
I'm more into the
consciousness thing.
I believe it's
all consciousness.
I believe that we are
being given messages
through various
things and that we're
in a process of awakening.
That to realize that--
my conclusion would be that,
the phenomena, whatever it is--
>>NOORY: Whatever it is.
>>CAMERON: What it is, it's
going to be a lot less physical
and people think.
And it's going to be
a lot more spiritual
or whatever you want to call it.
And people aren't
going to like that.
That's the way it
seems to be going
to me is that we've made a
lot of false assumptions.
Is the world
consciousness, or is it
made out of nuts and bolts?
And we're making all
these false assumptions.
And we're being told, you've got
this wrong; you got that wrong.
And once you understand that
it's all consciousness and that
we're all in this
one field together--
and the reason they're doing
these things is because they
understand something we don't.
They don't believe the
world is nuts and bolts.
And you can learn from them.
So that's where I want to go is
into this consciousness aspect.
Just me, that's where
the answers were.
I had an experience
that led me there.
But I believe that that
will be the final solution.
It's all going to be clearly
tied to consciousness.
>>NOORY: Are they coming
from other planetary
systems or other dimensions?
>>CAMERON: Wherever they're
coming from, they're coming in
through, like, wormholes.
They're doing this portal thing.
>>NOORY: But they're physical.
>>CAMERON: They're popping in.
They can come into
the physical world.
There's a number of experiences
will tell the story.
There was a ball of light
that came into my room,
and it turned into an alien.
Or there was an
alien in my room,
and it turned into
a ball of light.
So the question is, is it a ball
of light, or is it an alien?
And if it's a ball of light,
does it eat bacon, eggs, toast,
and coffee?
So I say they're in a higher
vibrating, consciousness,
frequency whatever it is.
They can come in
and become physical,
and then they go
back into the world.
We just think we're
in the physical world,
and we can move out
of the physical world.
They just know some
things that we don't know.
>>NOORY: Grant, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>CAMERON: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Here's
an individual who
goes out and looks for
documents from real people who
have had UFO experiences.
And they are the
who's who of ufology.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]